doc: bluetooth: mesh: ug restructuring (#13761)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/protocols/bt/bt_mesh/overview/architecture.rst

.. _ug_bt_mesh_overview_architecture:
.. _mesh_architecture:

Bluetooth Mesh architecture and data flow
#########################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The Bluetooth® Mesh is based on the Bluetooth LE part of the Bluetooth 4.0 Specification, and shares the lowest layers with this protocol.
On-air, the Bluetooth Mesh physical representation is compatible with existing Bluetooth LE devices, as mesh messages are contained inside the payload of Bluetooth LE *advertisement* packets.

.. figure:: ../images/bt_mesh_and_ble.svg
   :alt: Relationship between Bluetooth Mesh and Bluetooth LE specifications

   Relationship between Bluetooth Mesh and Bluetooth LE specifications

Stack architecture overview
***************************

> The Bluetooth Mesh stack in |NCS| is an extension of the Zephyr Bluetooth Mesh stack.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Bluetooth Mesh stack in the |NCS| is an extension of the Zephyr Bluetooth Mesh stack.
```

> The Zephyr Bluetooth Mesh stack implements the Bluetooth Mesh protocol specification (see :ref:`zephyr:bluetooth_mesh`), while |NCS| provides additional model implementations from the Bluetooth Mesh model specification on top of the :ref:`zephyr:bluetooth_mesh_access` API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Zephyr Bluetooth Mesh stack implements the Bluetooth Mesh protocol specification (see :ref:`zephyr:bluetooth_mesh`), while the |NCS| provides additional model implementations from the Bluetooth Mesh model specification on top of the :ref:`zephyr:bluetooth_mesh_access` API.
```

.. _ug_bt_mesh_overview_architecture:
.. _mesh_architecture:

Bluetooth Mesh architecture and data flow
#########################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The Bluetooth® Mesh is based on the Bluetooth LE part of the Bluetooth 4.0 Specification, and shares the lowest layers with this protocol.
On-air, the Bluetooth Mesh physical representation is compatible with existing Bluetooth LE devices, as mesh messages are contained inside the payload of Bluetooth LE *advertisement* packets.

> However, Bluetooth Mesh specifies a completely new host stack, and although some concepts are shared, Bluetooth Mesh is incompatible with the Bluetooth Host.

Reviewer 2: I think we should delete this, as it is not correct.
```suggestion
```

.. figure:: ../images/bt_mesh_and_ble.svg
   :alt: Relationship between Bluetooth Mesh and Bluetooth LE specifications

   Relationship between Bluetooth Mesh and Bluetooth LE specifications

Stack architecture overview
***************************

The Bluetooth Mesh stack in |NCS| is an extension of the Zephyr Bluetooth Mesh stack.

> The Zephyr Bluetooth Mesh stack implements the Bluetooth Mesh profile specification (see :ref:`zephyr:bluetooth_mesh`), while |NCS| provides additional model implementations from the Bluetooth Mesh model specification on top of the :ref:`zephyr:bluetooth_mesh_access` API.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Zephyr Bluetooth Mesh stack implements the Bluetooth Mesh Protocol specification (see :ref:`zephyr:bluetooth_mesh`), while |NCS| provides additional model implementations from the Bluetooth Mesh model specification on top of the :ref:`zephyr:bluetooth_mesh_access` API.
```

> * Bluetooth Mesh components in |NCS|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Bluetooth Mesh components in the |NCS|
```

The mesh stack supports provisioning of a device directly through the PB-ADV/PB-GATT provisioning bearer, which can only happen between a provisioner and a provisionee that are within radio range of each other.
The Bluetooth Mesh provisioning protocol is implemented in Zephyr.
For more information about the provisioning process and the API, see :ref:`zephyr:bluetooth_mesh_provisioning`.

Bluetooth Mesh network data flow
********************************

The following figure demonstrates how the data packets flow between mesh nodes and their layers within the mesh stack structure.

.. figure:: ../images/bt_mesh_data_packet_flow.svg
   :alt: Basic data flow within a mesh network in the |NCS| Bluetooth Mesh

   Basic data flow within a mesh network in the |NCS| Bluetooth Mesh

> As an example, consider a Bluetooth Mesh network with three devices/mesh network nodes and the process that takes place on each node when the light switch on the source node is pressed, as discussed in the following sections.

Reviewer 2: Which three devices that is not specified here.

> Source node with a light switch

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Source node with a light switch (Generic OnOff client model)
```

===============================

The following process takes place at this stage:

  1. The application calls the light switch model's publish function.

>   #. The model includes an on/off message in a publishing packet with an opcode and sends it to the access layer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  #. The model includes an on/off message with an opcode, in packet to be published, and sends it to the access layer.
```

  #. The access layer fetches the necessary publish parameters, like destination address, encryption keys and time to live value (TTL value), and passes the packet to the transport layer, the highest of the core layers.
  #. The transport layer then encrypts the message with the selected application key, and splits the message into segments if necessary.
     Each segment is passed to the network layer, which attaches a network header with a sequence number and encrypts the packet with the network key before passing it to the Bluetooth LE Controller.
  #. The Bluetooth LE Controller includes the network message in an advertisement packet, and schedules a time slot for the packet to be broadcasted.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When packet is broadcasted, it is picked up by nodes in the direct radio range of the transmitter. Let's say this packet is now picked by the relay node.
```

Relay node
==========

The following process takes place at this stage:

>   1. The broadcast is received by all mesh nodes within range, and is passed from their bearer layers to their network layers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  1. The broadcast is received by node, and is passed from their bearer layers to its network layers.
```

>   #. The network packet is decrypted, and if the receiving node is not its destination, the packet's TTL value is decreased by one, before being re-encrypted with the same network key and passed back to the Bluetooth LE Controller to be relayed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  #. The network packet is decrypted, and if the receiving node is not its destination, the packet's TTL value is decreased by one, before being re-encrypted with the same network key and passed back to the bearer layer to be transmitted using Bluetooth LE Controller.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```
After one or more hops, assume that the packet arrives at a destination node.
```

> Destination node with a light bulb

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Destination node with a light bulb (Generic OnOff Server model)
```

==================================

The following process takes place at this stage:

>   1. Once the packet is relayed to the destination light bulb node, its network layer will decrypt the packet and pass it to the transport layer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  1. The broadcast is received by node, and is passed from their bearer layers to its network layers.
  2. Network layer will decrypt the packet and pass it to the transport layer.
```

  #. Once all transport layer segments are received in this manner, the assembled message is decrypted with an application key, and passed on to the access layer.
  #. The access layer checks the opcode, application key and destination address, and passes the message to all eligible models.

>   #. If one of these models is a light bulb model, the model parses the contents of the message, and notifies the application to turn the light bulb on or off.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  #. If one of these models is a light bulb server model, the model parses the contents of the message, and notifies the application to turn the light bulb on or off.
```

>   #. If one of these models is a light bulb model, the model parses the contents of the message, and notifies the application to turn the light bulb on or off.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  #. If one of these models is a Generic OnOff Server model, the model parses the contents of the message, and notifies the application to turn the light bulb on or off.
```

> The light bulb model may respond to acknowledge the transmission, following the same procedure back to the light switch node, which can notify the application that the on/off message was received.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The server model may respond to acknowledge the transmission, following the same procedure back to the light switch node, which can notify the application that the on/off message was received.
```
